accounts/donation-increase-storage.md, before:

# Donations for Increased Storage

All HelioHost hosting accounts receive 1000 MB of Disk Space.

Users can increase account storage on their [Morty](servers/virtual/morty.md), [Tommy](servers/virtual/tommy.md), or [Johnny](servers/virtual/johnny.md) account by making a one-time donation of $5 USD for each additional 1000 MB they wish to add. In this way, an account can be increased to a maximum of 6000 MB.

Users who donate to increase their account storage and later request a server move will have their increased storage carry over as part of the account transfer.

For users who need more than 6000 MB of storage, we offer a range of [VPS plans](https://heliohost.org/vps/) with storage options ranging from 50 GB to 300 GB, and a 10% discount when you pay for 6 months upfront.

## How to Donate

To make a donation for additional account storage, please visit [heliohost.org/donate](https://heliohost.org/donate/). You can donate via PayPal or the cryptocurrencies listed on the page.

## After Donating

### PayPal Donations

After donating via PayPal, please create a post in the [Customer Service forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add) with your **account username** and **PayPal transaction ID** so the donation can be verified and your account storage increased.

#### PayPal Transaction ID

Some users are hesitant to provide their PayPal transaction ID. Please refer to this post by a PayPal employee explaining that [providing your transaction ID to your seller is perfectly safe](https://www.paypal-community.com/t5/Refunds-and-cancellations/OK-TO-RELEASE-PAYPAL-TRANSACTION-ID-NUMBER/td-p/719651). 

### Crypto Donations

Please make sure you consider transaction fees/gas when sending, so it comes out to ~$5/1000MB. After making the donation, please create a post in the [Customer Service forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add) with your **account username**, **currency type**, **transaction time** and **transaction amount** so the donation can be verified and your account storage increased.

#### Crypto Verification Timescales

Please be aware that crypto donations can take time to verify. In the case of XMR and AEON, these can take several days to verify and are not recommended.

Commit message:

Add info on debit/credit card donation option

accounts/donation-increase-storage.md, after:

# Donations for Increased Storage

All HelioHost hosting accounts receive 1000 MB of Disk Space.

Users can increase account storage on their [Morty](servers/virtual/morty.md), [Tommy](servers/virtual/tommy.md), or [Johnny](servers/virtual/johnny.md) account by making a one-time donation of $5 USD for each additional 1000 MB they wish to add. In this way, an account can be increased to a maximum of 6000 MB.

Users who donate to increase their account storage and later request a server move will have their increased storage carry over as part of the account transfer.

For users who need more than 6000 MB of storage, we offer a range of [VPS plans](https://heliohost.org/vps/) with storage options ranging from 50 GB to 300 GB, and a 10% discount when you pay for 6 months upfront.

## How to Donate

To make a donation for additional account storage, please visit [heliohost.org/donate](https://heliohost.org/donate/). You can donate via PayPal, Microsoft Points, Brave Creators, or the  cryptocurrencies listed on the page.

In some countries, you can donate using a Debit or Credit Card, so PayPal will act as the card payment processor, but you will not need a PayPal account. If this option is available to you, after clicking on the yellow PayPal button, you should see the `Donate with Debit or Credit Card` option.

![](../.gitbook/assets/donate-debit-credit-card.png)

## After Donating

### PayPal Donations

After donating via PayPal, please create a post in the [Customer Service forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add) with your **account username** and **PayPal transaction ID** so the donation can be verified and your account storage increased.

#### PayPal Transaction ID

Some users are hesitant to provide their PayPal transaction ID. Please refer to this post by a PayPal employee explaining that [providing your transaction ID to your seller is perfectly safe](https://www.paypal-community.com/t5/Refunds-and-cancellations/OK-TO-RELEASE-PAYPAL-TRANSACTION-ID-NUMBER/td-p/719651). 

### Crypto Donations

Please make sure you consider transaction fees/gas when sending, so it comes out to ~$5/1000MB. After making the donation, please create a post in the [Customer Service forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add) with your **account username**, **currency type**, **transaction time** and **transaction amount** so the donation can be verified and your account storage increased.

#### Crypto Verification Timescales

Please be aware that crypto donations can take time to verify. In the case of XMR and AEON, these can take several days to verify and are not recommended.
