accounts/moving-your-account.md, before:

# Moving your account

Whether you are on Johnny and want to move to Tommy or vice versa, follow these directions to switch servers.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you would like to preserve your existing account, donors can request that their account be moved directly without deletion. To do this, please [donate](https://www.heliohost.org/donate/).

After donating, please make a post on the [customer service forum](https://www.helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/) with your Transaction ID and the username of the account to be moved.
{% endhint %}

To move to another server without donating, refer to the following instructions:

1. Make a backup of all your files, databases, etc. ready for restoring \(as your current account will be deleted\).
2. [Request an account deletion.](https://heliohost.org/dashboard/delete/)
3. Wait for for your account to be deleted \(usually a few hours\).
4. [Sign up to HelioHost again.](https://www.heliohost.org/signup/) Make sure you choose the server you require.
5. Wait for your new account to become active \(Johnny can take up to 24 hours, Ricky and Tommy activate within minutes\).
6. Restore your backups.

ASP.NET requires a request for an account on [Lily](../servers/virtual/lily.md). Please post on our [forums](https://www.helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/) to request it.

Commit message:

Add link to tutorial on extracting data from backup file

accounts/moving-your-account.md, after:

# Moving your account

Whether you are on Johnny and want to move to Tommy or vice versa, follow these directions to switch servers.

{% hint style="info" %}
If you would like to preserve your existing account, donors can request that their account be moved directly without deletion. To do this, please [donate](https://www.heliohost.org/donate/).

After donating, please make a post on the [customer service forum](https://www.helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/) with your Transaction ID and the username of the account to be moved.
{% endhint %}

To move to another server without donating, refer to the following instructions:

1. Make a backup of all your files, databases, etc. ready for restoring \(as your current account will be deleted\).
2. [Request an account deletion.](https://heliohost.org/dashboard/delete/)
3. Wait for for your account to be deleted \(usually a few hours\).
4. [Sign up to HelioHost again.](https://www.heliohost.org/signup/) Make sure you choose the server you require.
5. Wait for your new account to become active \(Johnny can take up to 24 hours, Ricky and Tommy activate within minutes\).
6. Restore your backups. \(Visit our tutorial page for guidance on [How to Extract Your Account Data from the Backup File](../tutorials/plesk/extract-backup-file.md).\)

ASP.NET requires a request for an account on [Lily](../servers/virtual/lily.md). Please post on our [forums](https://www.helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/) to request it.
