README.md, before:

# HelioHost

[HelioHost](https://heliohost.org/) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization powered by a community of hobbyists that offers full-featured web hosting services for free.

### Welcome to the HelioHost Wiki

This [Wiki](https://wiki.helionet.org/) contains many articles related to [HelioHost](hosting/heliohost.md) and [its services](hosting/what-heliohost-offers.md), which can be really handy for getting the best out of your hosting experience. As well as answering many of the [Frequently Asked Questions](faq.md), it also offers various [tutorials](tutorials/README.md) to point you in the right direction when you get a bit stuck.

## Contributing

We are community powered, which means everyone is welcome to [contribute to our Wiki](contributing.md).

There are many [other ways you can help](./misc/how-you-can-help.md) support our mission of providing full-featured web hosting for free.

## Useful Links

* [HelioHost](https://www.heliohost.org/)
* [HelioNet](https://www.helionet.org/index/)
* [Sign Up](https://www.heliohost.org/signup/)
* [FAQ](faq.md)

Commit message:

Fix heading & add details to Welcome section

README.md, after:

# HelioHost

[HelioHost](https://heliohost.org/) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization powered by a community of hobbyists that offers full-featured web hosting services for free.

## Welcome to the HelioHost Wiki

This [Wiki](https://wiki.helionet.org/) contains many articles related to [HelioHost](hosting/heliohost.md) and [its services](hosting/what-heliohost-offers.md), which can be really handy for getting the best out of your hosting experience. As well as answering many [Frequently Asked Questions](faq.md), our user-friendly how-to documents include [tutorials](tutorials/README.md) to help you explore various technologies, and a growing [common errors](./common-errors/README.md) section to point you in the right direction if you get a bit stuck.

## Contributing

We are community powered, which means everyone is welcome to [contribute to our Wiki](contributing.md).

There are many [other ways you can help](./misc/how-you-can-help.md) support our mission of providing full-featured web hosting for free.

## Useful Links

* [HelioHost](https://www.heliohost.org/)
* [HelioNet](https://www.helionet.org/index/)
* [Sign Up](https://www.heliohost.org/signup/)
* [FAQ](faq.md)
