hosting/signing-up.md, before:

# Signing up

## Before signup

### Why should I choose Tommy?

Tommy is our flagship production server, one of our fastest and most stable servers, with the newest hardware between our servers. Because of this stability, he is recommended if you want to host a production site.

Tommy is closed for free signups, but [Donor Signups](https://heliohost.org/tommy/) are always available.

### Why should I choose Johnny?

Johnny is our free server, still offering great stability, speed, and uptime. 

## During signup

### I get a message saying that the signup limit has been exceeded?

To prevent the server getting overloaded from masses of new accounts, we put a limit on the number of people who can signup which resets daily. The system resets at 00:00 UTC. To find out when to signup, go to [http://flazepe.heliohost.org/?node=hhsignups](https://flazepe.heliohost.org/?node=hhsignups).

### Should I signup to HelioNet as well?

#### What is HelioNet?

HelioNet is located at [http://helionet.org](https://helionet.org) and is a discussion board where users like yourself can request support. The friendly staff and the community will attempt to answer your questions as best as they can.  

{% hint style="info" %}
When you create your hosting account, a HelioNet forum account with the same username and password is created for you.   
{% endhint %}

If you need assistance, you can post on the HelioNet forum and the administrators can easily identify you by username.

Learn more about the history of HelioNet [here](https://wiki.helionet.org/hosting/helionet).

### Why can't I use a Hotmail email address?

Unfortunately, Hotmail have blocked HelioNet's emails which means that it is impossible for us to send emails to people who are on Hotmail or Live. Hotmail simply discards the email - they don't even put it in the Spam or Junk folder. This isn't our fault, sorry for any inconvenience.

## After signup

### I've signed up - what now?

{% hint style="info" %}  
It can take **up to 2 hours** for your account to be fully active.  
{% endhint %}

In the meantime you may see the Plesk default page, the CentOS default page, 404 errors, SSL errors, etc. Please be patient and wait for the full 2 hours before assuming anything is broken.  

#### Check Account Activation Status
To check the status of your account and see an approximation of the activation completion time, go to [https://heliohost.org/status](https://heliohost.org/status/).  

If after a full 2 hours, you still see a message saying `HelioHost Account Queued` or are still seeing the Plesk default page, please [clear your cache](../misc/clear-your-cache.md).

### I have chosen to use a domain other than .heliohost.org

You will need to add the following nameservers to your domain via your domain registrars website:

* `ns1.heliohost.org`
* `ns2.heliohost.org`

To check that your nameservers have been properly configured, go to [http://byrondallas.heliohost.org/php/tools/dns\_records.php](http://byrondallas.heliohost.org/php/tools/dns_records.php).

### I have received an email saying that my account failed to be created?

Please create a new topic in our [Customer Support forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add) and make sure you **provide your hosting account username** so we can investigate this for you.

Commit message:

Update free signup limit to every 12 hours

hosting/signing-up.md, after:

# Signing up

## Before signup

### Why should I choose Tommy?

Tommy is our flagship production server, one of our fastest and most stable servers, with the newest hardware between our servers. Because of this stability, he is recommended if you want to host a production site.

Tommy is closed for free signups, but [Donor Signups](https://heliohost.org/tommy/) are always available.

### Why should I choose Johnny?

Johnny is our free server, still offering great stability, speed, and uptime. 

## During signup

### I get a message saying "That plan is already full for the day"?

To prevent the free Johnny server getting overloaded from masses of new accounts, we put a limit on the number of people who can sign up. This limit resets [every 12 hours](https://helionet.org/index/topic/59660-midnight-and-noon/), at midnight UTC and noon UTC. To find out when to signup, go to [http://flazepe.heliohost.org/?node=hhsignups](https://flazepe.heliohost.org/?node=hhsignups).

### Should I signup to HelioNet as well?

#### What is HelioNet?

HelioNet is located at [http://helionet.org](https://helionet.org) and is a discussion board where users like yourself can request support. The friendly staff and the community will attempt to answer your questions as best as they can.  

{% hint style="info" %}
When you create your hosting account, a HelioNet forum account with the same username and password is created for you.   
{% endhint %}

If you need assistance, you can post on the HelioNet forum and the administrators can easily identify you by username.

Learn more about the history of HelioNet [here](https://wiki.helionet.org/hosting/helionet).

### Why can't I use a Hotmail email address?

Unfortunately, Hotmail have blocked HelioNet's emails which means that it is impossible for us to send emails to people who are on Hotmail or Live. Hotmail simply discards the email - they don't even put it in the Spam or Junk folder. This isn't our fault, sorry for any inconvenience.

## After signup

### I've signed up - what now?

{% hint style="info" %}  
It can take **up to 2 hours** for your account to be fully active.  
{% endhint %}

In the meantime you may see the Plesk default page, the CentOS default page, 404 errors, SSL errors, etc. Please be patient and wait for the full 2 hours before assuming anything is broken.  

#### Check Account Activation Status
To check the status of your account and see an approximation of the activation completion time, go to [https://heliohost.org/status](https://heliohost.org/status/).  

If after a full 2 hours, you still see a message saying `HelioHost Account Queued` or are still seeing the Plesk default page, please [clear your cache](../misc/clear-your-cache.md).

### I have chosen to use a domain other than .heliohost.org

You will need to add the following nameservers to your domain via your domain registrars website:

* `ns1.heliohost.org`
* `ns2.heliohost.org`

To check that your nameservers have been properly configured, go to [http://byrondallas.heliohost.org/php/tools/dns\_records.php](http://byrondallas.heliohost.org/php/tools/dns_records.php).

### I have received an email saying that my account failed to be created?

Please create a new topic in our [Customer Support forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add) and make sure you **provide your hosting account username** so we can investigate this for you.
