hosting/what-heliohost-is-not.md, before:

# What HelioHost is Not

HelioHost is a free web host; it is not your one-stop gateway to running a website. This article will explain exactly what HelioHost is NOT.

## HelioHost is NOT a Domain Registrar

A domain name registrar is a service used to purchase top level domains (TLDs) - i.e. a .com, .org, .net, or similar website name. HelioHost DOES NOT offer domain registration. When you sign up with HelioHost, you can use a free `domain.helioho.st` or `domain.heliohost.us` subdomain (where `domain` is whatever you choose), use a domain purchased from another registrar (such as [GoDaddy](http://www.godaddy.com/default.aspx) or [Network Solutions](http://www.networksolutions.com/)), or a free domain (which you can register at [nic.EU.org](https://nic.eu.org/)). HelioHost does not offer, support, or maintain any domain names.

{% hint style="info" %}
As a sign of thanks for HelioHost's most active members, HelioHost will purchase a domain for you with our own funds if you meet the requirements outlined [here](https://www.helionet.org/index/topic/34286-free-domain-requests-400-posts-required/).
{% endhint %}

## HelioHost is Not a Website Designer

HelioHost offers free website hosting. HelioHost does NOT create, design, or maintain your website for you, it only gives it a place to be hosted. Through Plesk, you can use their auto-installer to install popular software (such as blogging and forum platforms) to your website, but you are responsible for ALL maintenance, design, etc.

Commit message:

Add Namecheap & Other Registrars sections for ease of navigation

hosting/what-heliohost-is-not.md, after:

# What HelioHost is Not

HelioHost is a free web host; it is not your one-stop gateway to running a website. This article will explain exactly what HelioHost is NOT.

## HelioHost is NOT a Domain Registrar

A domain name registrar is a service used to purchase top level domains (TLDs) - i.e. a .com, .org, .net, or similar website name. HelioHost DOES NOT offer domain registration. When you sign up with HelioHost, you can use a free `domain.helioho.st` or `domain.heliohost.us` subdomain (where `domain` is whatever you choose).

{% hint style="info" %}
As a sign of thanks for HelioHost's most active members, HelioHost will purchase a domain for you with our own funds if you meet the requirements outlined [here](https://www.helionet.org/index/topic/34286-free-domain-requests-400-posts-required/).
{% endhint %}

## Domain Registrars

### Namecheap

HelioHost has an affiliate agreement with Namecheap, so if you're in the market for a new domain we highly recommend purchasing it from them. Once you set the nameservers to `ns1.heliohost.org` and `ns2.heliohost.org`, we can host the website on your brand new domain for you. Click the banner below to use our affiliate link to shop for your new domain:

[![Namecheap Affiliate Banner](https://heliohost.org/images/mail/namecheap.png)](https://heliohost.org/partners/namecheap)

{% hint style="info" %}
After checking if your preferred domain name is available, there will sometimes be a Promo Code you can use at checkout, to get a very low price for the first year.
{% endhint %}

### Other Registrars

You could also use a domain purchased from another registrar, such as [GoDaddy](http://www.godaddy.com/) or [Network Solutions](http://www.networksolutions.com/).  

Another option is to use a free domain, which you can register at [nic.EU.org](https://nic.eu.org/).

## HelioHost is Not a Website Designer

HelioHost offers free website hosting. HelioHost does NOT create, design, or maintain your website for you, it only gives it a place to be hosted. Through Plesk, you can use their auto-installer to install popular software (such as blogging and forum platforms) to your website, but you are responsible for ALL maintenance, design, etc.
