common-errors/ssl-certificate.md, before:

# SSL Certificate Problems

If you encounter issues with the Let's Encrypt SSL certificate on your domain or subdomain, here are some things to check once you are logged in to Plesk:

## Check if the Certificate is Expired or Invalid 

If the certificate is expired or invalid:

* Reissue the certificate
* Wait a full 2 hours
* [Clear your cache](misc/clear-your-cache.md) to ensure the changes are applied correctly

## If the Certificate is NOT Expired

If the certificate is not expired:

* Unassign the certificate from the domain
* Reassign the certificate to the domain
* Wait a full 2 hours
* [Clear your cache](misc/clear-your-cache.md) to ensure the changes are applied correctly

## Further Support

If after following the above steps, waiting a full 2 hours, and [clearing your cache](misc/clear-your-cache.md), the problem is not fixed, please post a topic in the [Customer Support forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add). Make sure you provide your **username**, **domain name**, and any applicable **error message(s)** received.

Commit message:

Add navigation steps for Let's Encrypt settings

common-errors/ssl-certificate.md, after:

# SSL Certificate Problems

## Let's Encrypt Settings

Navigate to the Let's Encrypt settings using the steps below:

**Login > Plesk > Websites & Domains > [ domain ] > Dashboard tab > Security section> SSL/TLS Certificates button > Let's Encrypt settings**

## Troubleshooting 

If you have issues with the Let's Encrypt SSL certificate on your domain or subdomain, here are some things to check:

## Check if the Certificate is Expired or Invalid 

If the certificate is expired or invalid:

* Reissue the certificate
* Wait a full 2 hours
* [Clear your cache](misc/clear-your-cache.md) to ensure the changes are applied correctly

## If the Certificate is NOT Expired

If the certificate is not expired:

* Unassign the certificate from the domain
* Reassign the certificate to the domain
* Wait a full 2 hours
* [Clear your cache](misc/clear-your-cache.md) to ensure the changes are applied correctly

## Further Support

If after following the above steps, waiting a full 2 hours, and [clearing your cache](misc/clear-your-cache.md), the problem is not fixed, please post a topic in the [Customer Support forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add). Make sure you provide your **username**, **domain name**, and any applicable **error message(s)** received.
