tutorials/plesk/account-backups.md, before:

# Plesk Account Backups

## Download an Account Backup

If the HelioHost team made a backup of your hosting account data, you can retrieve it by visiting [https://heliohost.org/backup](https://heliohost.org/backup/) and following the instructions on the page to download the file.

Inside the downloaded backup file, there will be a large file named `backup_user-data_##########.tzst` which contains all your files.  

The file will be in a format called `Z-standard` and will need to be extracted.

## Extract Data from Backup File

### Linux or Mac

On Linux or Mac you can install the `zstd` package and extract it on the command line. 

### Windows 

On Windows you can use [WinRar](https://www.win-rar.com/) or [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/).

## Access Your Files

* Navigate to the main backup file named `pleskbackup-YourAccountUsername.tar`
* Extract the `.tar` file using one of the software packages listed above
* The files will be extracted to a folder named `pleskbackup-YourAccountUsername`
* Open the folder and navigate to the `domains` folder
* Open the next folder, named `YourAccountUsername.heliohost.us` or `YourAccountUsername.helioho.st`
* Navigate to the file named `backup_user-data_##########.tzst` 
* Open the file to access your data

![](../../.gitbook/assets/extract-plesk-backup-file.png)

## Make an Account Backup

Follow the navigation steps below to make a backup of your hosting account inside Plesk:  

#### Login > Plesk > Websites & Domains > [ domain ] > Backup & Restore

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-make-account-backup.png)

Click the `Back Up` button.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-make-account-backup-2.png)

Select the account content you want to back up, and click on the `OK` button.

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-select-backup-content.png)

## Download Copy of Backup

Once the backup process finishes, click on the green arrow icon to download the backup file to your local computer:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-download-backup-file.png)

Make your selection about using a password to encrypt users' passwords contained in the Plesk database or not, and click on the `OK` button:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-download-backup-file-2.png)

Your backup file will be downloaded to your local machine with filename `backup_domain.helioho.st_##########.tar`

## Schedule Account Backups

Follow the navigation steps below to set up or modify scheduled automated account backup settings inside Plesk:

#### Login > Plesk > Websites & Domains > [ domain ] > Backup & Restore > Schedule

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-schedule-account-backup.png)

After clicking the `Schedule` button, adjust the settings as needed.

## Further Support

If after following the above steps, you are unable to download or extract your backup data or make your own account backup, please post a topic in the [Customer Support forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add). Please make sure you provide your hosting account **username** and details of the problem, including what steps you have tried, and any **error message(s)** encountered.

### References

The original discussion which prompted the creation of this tutorial for extracting Plesk backup files can be found [here](https://helionet.org/index/topic/58777-solved-suspended-account/#comment-260423).

Commit message:

Add link to Terms of Service

tutorials/plesk/account-backups.md, after:

# Plesk Account Backups

## Download an Account Backup

If the HelioHost team made a backup of your hosting account data, you can retrieve it by visiting [https://heliohost.org/backup](https://heliohost.org/backup/) and following the instructions on the page to download the file.

Inside the downloaded backup file, there will be a large file named `backup_user-data_##########.tzst` which contains all your files.  

The file will be in a format called `Z-standard` and will need to be extracted.

## Extract Data from Backup File

### Linux or Mac

On Linux or Mac you can install the `zstd` package and extract it on the command line. 

### Windows 

On Windows you can use [WinRar](https://www.win-rar.com/) or [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/).

## Access Your Files

* Navigate to the main backup file named `pleskbackup-YourAccountUsername.tar`
* Extract the `.tar` file using one of the software packages listed above
* The files will be extracted to a folder named `pleskbackup-YourAccountUsername`
* Open the folder and navigate to the `domains` folder
* Open the next folder, named `YourAccountUsername.heliohost.us` or `YourAccountUsername.helioho.st`
* Navigate to the file named `backup_user-data_##########.tzst` 
* Open the file to access your data

![](../../.gitbook/assets/extract-plesk-backup-file.png)

## Make an Account Backup

As mentioned in our [Terms of Service](../../hosting/terms.md), it is not HelioHost's responsibility to keep backups of your data. We strongly recommend you backup your data regularly and keep it in a safe place.

Follow the navigation steps below to make a backup of your hosting account inside Plesk:

#### Login > Plesk > Websites & Domains > [ domain ] > Backup & Restore

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-make-account-backup.png)

Click the `Back Up` button:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-make-account-backup-2.png)

Select the account content you want to back up, and click on the `OK` button:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-select-backup-content.png)

## Download Copy of Backup

Once the backup process finishes, click on the green arrow icon to download the backup file to your local computer:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-download-backup-file.png)

Make your selection about using a password to encrypt users' passwords contained in the Plesk database or not, and click on the `OK` button:

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-download-backup-file-2.png)

Your backup file will be downloaded to your local machine with filename `backup_domain.helioho.st_##########.tar`

## Schedule Account Backups

Follow the navigation steps below to set up or modify scheduled account backup settings inside Plesk:

#### Login > Plesk > Websites & Domains > [ domain ] > Backup & Restore > Schedule

![](../../.gitbook/assets/plesk-schedule-account-backup.png)

After clicking the `Schedule` button, adjust the settings as needed.

## Further Support

If after following the above steps, you are unable to download or extract your backup data or make your own account backup, please post a topic in the [Customer Support forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/?do=add). Please make sure you provide your hosting account **username** and details of the problem, including what steps you have tried, and any **error message(s)** encountered.

### References

The original discussion which prompted the creation of this tutorial for extracting Plesk backup files can be found [here](https://helionet.org/index/topic/58777-solved-suspended-account/#comment-260423).
