tutorials/flask.md, before:

# Flask

### Flask on the Tommy and Johnny servers uses Python 3.10. 

{% hint style="info" %} 
If you need to run Flask on another version of Python, you'll need to get a [VPS](https://heliohost.org/vps/)
{% endhint %}

## About Flask

Flask is a Python web framework built with a small core and easy-to-extend philosophy.  
Read more: [Full Stack Python](https://www.fullstackpython.com/flask.html)

## How To Setup Flask on Plesk

### 1. Create a directory on your main domain called `flasktest`.  

If you were transferred from the old cPanel, your main domain will be parked on the `public_html` directory.  

If you created a new account on Plesk, your directory will be `httpdocs`.

### 2. Create an `.htaccess` file inside the `flasktest` directory with these contents:

```text
Options +ExecCGI
RewriteEngine On
RewriteBase /
RewriteRule ^(media/.*)$ - [L]
RewriteRule ^(admin_media/.*)$ - [L]
RewriteRule ^(flask\.wsgi/.*)$ - [L]
RewriteRule ^(.*)$ flasktest/flask.wsgi/$1 [QSA,PT,L]
```

### 3. Create a file named `flask.wsgi` inside the `flasktest` directory with these contents:

```text
import os, sys

# edit your path below
sys.path.append("/home/domain.helioho.st/httpdocs/flasktest");

sys.path.insert(0, os.path.dirname(__file__))
from myapp import app as application

# set this to something harder to guess
application.secret_key = 'secret'
```

### 4. Create a file named `myapp.py` inside the `flasktest` directory with these contents:

```text
import sys

from flask import Flask, __version__
app = Flask(__name__)
application = app

@app.route("/")
def hello():
  return """

    Flask is working on HelioHost.<br><br>
    <a href="/flasktest/python/version/">Python version</a><br>
    <a href="/flasktest/flask/version/">Flask version</a>

  """

@app.route("/python/version/")
def p_version():
  return "Python version %s<br><br><a href='/flasktest/'>back</a>" % sys.version

@app.route("/flask/version/")
def f_version():
  return "Flask version %s<br><br><a href='/flasktest/'>back</a>" % __version__

if __name__ == "__main__":
  app.run()
```

### 5. Make sure your directory structure and files look like this:

```text
flasktest/
├── flask.wsgi
├── .htaccess
└── myapp.py

0 directories, 3 files
```

### 6. If you did everything right it should look like the below:

Screenshot taken from [https://krydos.heliohost.org/flasktest/](https://krydos.heliohost.org/flasktest/)

![](../.gitbook/assets/flask_test.png)

{% hint style="warning" %}
Since WSGI uses server side caching, your changes might not appear immediately, and **in some cases might take several hours to update**.  

We recommend developing your Flask app on your home computer and hosting the production copy on the server.
{% endhint %}

## Troubleshooting

If you receive an error of `You don't have permission to access /flasktest/flask.wsgi/ on this server`, you may need to add `AddHandler cgi-script .py`to your `.htaccess` file.

## Running Flask at the Webroot

The above example is for Flask in a subdirectory, so users can host different projects in different subdirectories rather than dedicating the whole domain to one Flask app.

If you prefer to run Flask at the webroot instead, this is possible with some slight changes to the `.htaccess`, `flask.wsgi`, and `myapp.py` files.

### References

This tutorial is adapted from the **[How to Use Flask on Plesk](https://helionet.org/index/topic/53856-how-to-use-flask-on-plesk/)** post on the HelioNet forum, answered by Krydos.

Commit message:

Add details on requesting manual Flask app restart feature

tutorials/flask.md, after:

# Flask

### Flask on the Tommy and Johnny servers uses Python 3.10. 

{% hint style="info" %} 
If you need to run Flask on another version of Python, you'll need to get a [VPS](https://heliohost.org/vps/)
{% endhint %}

## About Flask

Flask is a Python web framework built with a small core and easy-to-extend philosophy.  
Read more: [Full Stack Python](https://www.fullstackpython.com/flask.html)

## How To Setup Flask on Plesk

### 1. Create a directory on your main domain called `flasktest`.  

If you were transferred from the old cPanel, your main domain will be parked on the `public_html` directory.  

If you created a new account on Plesk, your directory will be `httpdocs`.

### 2. Create an `.htaccess` file inside the `flasktest` directory with these contents:

```text
Options +ExecCGI
RewriteEngine On
RewriteBase /
RewriteRule ^(media/.*)$ - [L]
RewriteRule ^(admin_media/.*)$ - [L]
RewriteRule ^(flask\.wsgi/.*)$ - [L]
RewriteRule ^(.*)$ flasktest/flask.wsgi/$1 [QSA,PT,L]
```

### 3. Create a file named `flask.wsgi` inside the `flasktest` directory with these contents:

```text
import os, sys

# edit your path below
sys.path.append("/home/domain.helioho.st/httpdocs/flasktest");

sys.path.insert(0, os.path.dirname(__file__))
from myapp import app as application

# set this to something harder to guess
application.secret_key = 'secret'
```

### 4. Create a file named `myapp.py` inside the `flasktest` directory with these contents:

```text
import sys

from flask import Flask, __version__
app = Flask(__name__)
application = app

@app.route("/")
def hello():
  return """

    Flask is working on HelioHost.<br><br>
    <a href="/flasktest/python/version/">Python version</a><br>
    <a href="/flasktest/flask/version/">Flask version</a>

  """

@app.route("/python/version/")
def p_version():
  return "Python version %s<br><br><a href='/flasktest/'>back</a>" % sys.version

@app.route("/flask/version/")
def f_version():
  return "Flask version %s<br><br><a href='/flasktest/'>back</a>" % __version__

if __name__ == "__main__":
  app.run()
```

### 5. Make sure your directory structure and files look like this:

```text
flasktest/
├── flask.wsgi
├── .htaccess
└── myapp.py

0 directories, 3 files
```

### 6. If you did everything right it should look like the below:

Screenshot taken from [https://krydos.heliohost.org/flasktest/](https://krydos.heliohost.org/flasktest/)

![](../.gitbook/assets/flask_test.png)

## WSGI Uses Caching

{% hint style="warning" %}
Flask changes can take **up to 2 hours** to appear consistently on your site because WSGI uses server side caching.

If you want site changes to take effect immediately, please refer to the options below.
{% endhint %}

### How Caching Works

If there are 20 Apache processes, each time you refresh your site you are randomly assigned to one of these processes. If the process has already displayed your site, it shows the cached version of your code; otherwise it shows the new code changes. This means that during the first 2 hours of site changes, you may intermittently see old or new content depending on which process you get assigned to. This situation will resolve when Apache is restarted, which happens every 2 hours.

## Working Around Caching

### Option 1: Request Manual Reload Ability

A new feature currently in beta is the ability for users to restart their Flask app themselves. 

To request this, please raise a request in the [Customer Service forum](https://helionet.org/index/forum/45-customer-service/) and provide your **username**, **server name**, and the **domain name(s)** you want to be given Flask app reload ability for. (If you have 2 Flask apps on 2 different domains, you need to request the ability to reload for each domain.)

Once your domain has been changed to enable manual reloads, editing your `flask.wsgi` file will reload your Flask app so new code changes load immediately. The edits to the file can be as simple as adding or removing a space or a blank line. As long as the file's `last modified date` changes it will discard the cache and reload your Flask app.

Please let us know if you experience unexpected results with this new feature.

### Option 2: Local Development

Another option to have code changes appear immediately is to develop your Flask app on your home computer. Once you are finished building your app you could then host the production copy on the server.

### Option 3: VPS 

You may prefer to explore one of our paid options for [VPS Plans](https://heliohost.org/vps/) depending on your requirements.

## Troubleshooting

If you receive an error of `You don't have permission to access /flasktest/flask.wsgi/ on this server`, you may need to add `AddHandler cgi-script .py`to your `.htaccess` file.

## Running Flask at the Webroot

The above example is for Flask in a subdirectory, so users can host different projects in different subdirectories rather than dedicating the whole domain to one Flask app.

If you prefer to run Flask at the webroot instead, this is possible with some slight changes to the `.htaccess`, `flask.wsgi`, and `myapp.py` files.

### References

This tutorial is adapted from the **[How to Use Flask on Plesk](https://helionet.org/index/topic/53856-how-to-use-flask-on-plesk/)** post on the HelioNet forum, answered by Krydos.
