features/plesk.md, before:

# Plesk
{% hint style="danger" %} Please note that this wiki page is heavily outdated. Some information may be out of date, or entirely not work.  {% endhint %}

## What is Plesk?

Plesk is a powerful, yet user-friendly hosting/domain manager. Plesk has a simple-to-use interface that makes editing your hosting details extremely easy.

## What can Plesk do?

With Plesk, which is included with all HelioHost hosting accounts, you can:

* Install Blog, Forum, CMS, or other software with the [Softaculous](softaculous.md) auto-installer service
* Install software using Plesk Applications Installer (`Plesk > Applications`)
* Update your HelioHost account information (email address / password)
* Create and manage FTP accounts (`Plesk > Websites & Domains > [domain] > Dashboard tab > Connection Info for FTP, Database`) for access using external FTP clients
* Use the built-in Plesk File Manager (`Plesk > Files`)
* View [error logs](../tutorials/plesk/view-error-logs.md) for your site
* [Password protect directories](../tutorials/plesk/password-protect-directory.md) on your site
* Create MySQL/PostgreSQL databases/users (see [MySQL Databases](../management/mysql.md))
* Edit SQL tables using phpMyAdmin (`Plesk > Databases`)
* Create and manage [unlimited email accounts](unlimited-email-accounts.md) for your domain(s)
  * Check webmail using the preinstalled RoundCube web interface, or install SquirrelMail or AfterLogic
  * Set-up e-mail clients (such as Outlook, Gmail, Thunderbird, or iOS Mail on iPhone/iPad) for use with your e-mail addresses (through POP3/SMTP)

## How do I access my Plesk?

Plesk can be accessed by logging into the HelioHost website at [heliohost.org](https://heliohost.org/) or [heliohost.org/login](https://heliohost.org/login/) and clicking on the Plesk button.

{% hint style="info" %}
We strongly recommend that you **do not** bookmark your Plesk dashboard URL. Using the Plesk URL without first logging in at [heliohost.org](https://heliohost.org/) or [heliohost.org/login](https://heliohost.org/login/) will not track your logins and risks your account being [suspended for inactivity](https://wiki.helionet.org/accounts/suspension-policy#inactivity-policy) after 30 days.
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

Remove warning note about possible outdated info

features/plesk.md, after:

# Plesk

## What is Plesk?

Plesk is a powerful, yet user-friendly hosting/domain manager. Plesk has a simple-to-use interface that makes editing your hosting details extremely easy.

## What can Plesk do?

With Plesk, which is included with all HelioHost hosting accounts, you can:

* Install Blog, Forum, CMS, or other software with the [Softaculous](softaculous.md) auto-installer service
* Install software using Plesk Applications Installer (`Plesk > Applications`)
* Update your HelioHost account information (email address / password)
* Create and manage FTP accounts (`Plesk > Websites & Domains > [domain] > Dashboard tab > Connection Info for FTP, Database`) for access using external FTP clients
* Use the built-in Plesk File Manager (`Plesk > Files`)
* View [error logs](../tutorials/plesk/view-error-logs.md) for your site
* [Password protect directories](../tutorials/plesk/password-protect-directory.md) on your site
* Create MySQL/PostgreSQL databases/users (see [MySQL Databases](../management/mysql.md))
* Edit SQL tables using phpMyAdmin (`Plesk > Databases`)
* Create and manage [unlimited email accounts](unlimited-email-accounts.md) for your domain(s)
  * Check webmail using the preinstalled RoundCube web interface, or install SquirrelMail or AfterLogic
  * Set-up e-mail clients (such as Outlook, Gmail, Thunderbird, or iOS Mail on iPhone/iPad) for use with your e-mail addresses (through POP3/SMTP)

## How do I access my Plesk?

To access Plesk, log in to the HelioHost website at [heliohost.org](https://heliohost.org/) or [heliohost.org/login](https://heliohost.org/login/) and click on the Plesk button.

{% hint style="info" %}
We strongly recommend that you **do not** bookmark your Plesk dashboard URL. Using the Plesk URL without first logging in at [heliohost.org](https://heliohost.org/) or [heliohost.org/login](https://heliohost.org/login/) will not track your logins and risks your account being [suspended for inactivity](https://wiki.helionet.org/accounts/suspension-policy#inactivity-policy) after 30 days.
{% endhint %}
