features/storage.md, before:

# Storage

## Account Storage

HelioHost offers 1000 MB of web space for hosting accounts on our free [Johnny](servers/virtual/johnny.md) server, our donor server [Tommy](servers/virtual/tommy.md), and our scaling hosting server [Morty](servers/virtual/tommy.md).

This figure combines your stored files (including [account backups](../tutorials/plesk/account-backups.md) and [error logs](../tutorials/plesk/view-error-logs.md)) and your databases. 

This should be more than enough to handle any forum, blog, or other script you might need to host. Sites that might encounter problems with this limit include photo galleries with high-megapixel images or online storage sites. In general, this limit should not be a problem to the great majority of hosting users.

## Storage Upgrade Options

Sometimes, users wish to increase their account capacity. We offer the following paid options:

### Donations for Additional Storage

For each $5 USD donated, users can [add 1000 MB extra space](../accounts/donation-increase-storage.md) to their account on [Johnny](servers/virtual/johnny.md), [Tommy](servers/virtual/tommy.md), or [Morty](servers/virtual/tommy.md), up to a maximum account size of 6000 MB.

### VPS Plans

For users who wish to pay for more memory, CPUs, or file space, we offer [VPS plans](https://heliohost.org/vps/) with storage options ranging from 50 GB to 300 GB, and a 10% discount when you pay for 6 months upfront.

Commit message:

Specify that $5 USD/1000MB donations are one-time & storage follows server move

features/storage.md, after:

# Storage

## Account Storage

HelioHost offers 1000 MB of web space for hosting accounts on our free [Johnny](servers/virtual/johnny.md) server, our donor server [Tommy](servers/virtual/tommy.md), and our scaling hosting server [Morty](servers/virtual/tommy.md).

This figure combines your stored files (including [account backups](../tutorials/plesk/account-backups.md) and [error logs](../tutorials/plesk/view-error-logs.md)) and your databases. 

This should be more than enough to handle any forum, blog, or other script you might need to host. Sites that might encounter problems with this limit include photo galleries with high-megapixel images or online storage sites. In general, this limit should not be a problem to the great majority of hosting users.

## Storage Upgrade Options

Sometimes, users wish to increase their account capacity. We offer the following paid options:

### Donations for Additional Storage

For each one-time $5 USD donation, users can [add 1000 MB extra space](../accounts/donation-increase-storage.md) to their account on [Johnny](servers/virtual/johnny.md), [Tommy](servers/virtual/tommy.md), or [Morty](servers/virtual/tommy.md), up to a maximum account size of 6000 MB.

Users who donate to increase their account storage and later request a server move will have their increased storage carry over as part of the account transfer.

### VPS Plans

For users who wish to pay for more memory, CPUs, or file space, we offer [VPS plans](https://heliohost.org/vps/) with storage options ranging from 50 GB to 300 GB, and a 10% discount when you pay for 6 months upfront.
